---
title: "我过去五年的工作"
date: 2024-06-02T23:55:55+08:00
updated: 2024-06-02T23:55:55+08:00
taxonomies:
  tags: []
extra:
  source: https://www.palladiummag.com/2024/05/17/my-last-five-years-of-work/
  hostname: www.palladiummag.com
  author: 
  original_title: "My Last Five Years of Work"
  original_lang: en-US
---

I am 25. These next three years might be the last few years that I work. I am not ill, nor am I becoming a stay-at-home mom, nor have I been so financially fortunate to be on the brink of voluntary retirement. I stand at the edge of a technological development that seems likely, should it arrive, to end employment as I know it.   

我今年25岁。接下来的三年可能是我工作的最后几年。我没有生病，也没有成为一名全职妈妈，也没有在经济上如此幸运地处于自愿退休的边缘。我正站在技术发展的边缘，如果它到来，据我所知，这种技术很可能会结束就业。

I work at a frontier AI company. With every iteration of our model, I am confronted with something more capable and general than before. At this stage, it can competently generate cogent content on a wide range of topics. It can summarize and analyze texts passably well. As someone who at one point made money as a freelance writer and prided myself on my ability to write large amounts of content quickly, a skill which—like cutting blocks of ice from a frozen pond—is arguably obsolete, I find it hard not to notice these advances. Freelance writing was always an oversubscribed skillset, and the introduction of language models has further intensified competition.   

我在一家前沿人工智能公司工作。随着模型的每次迭代，我都会遇到比以前更强大、更通用的东西。在这个阶段，它可以胜任地生成有关广泛主题的令人信服的内容。它可以很好地总结和分析文本。作为一个曾经作为自由撰稿人赚钱并为自己快速撰写大量内容的能力感到自豪的人，这项技能（就像从结冰的池塘中切割冰块一样）可以说已经过时了，我发现很难不去请注意这些进步。自由写作一直是一项超额认购的技能，语言模型的引入进一步加剧了竞争。

The general reaction to language models among knowledge workers is one of denial. They grasp at the ever diminishing number of places where such models [still struggle](https://www.technologyreview.com/2024/01/23/1086944/why-does-ai-being-good-at-math-matter/#:~:text=Math%20is%20really%2C%20really%20hard,more%20powerful%20and%20intelligent%20systems), rather than noticing the ever-growing range of tasks where they have reached or passed human level. Many will point out that AI systems are not yet writing award-winning books, let alone patenting inventions. But most of us also don’t do these things.  

知识工作者对语言模型的普遍反应是否认。他们抓住了这些模型仍在努力的地方越来越少，而不是注意到他们已经达到或超过人类水平的任务范围不断扩大。许多人会指出，人工智能系统尚未撰写获奖书籍，更不用说为发明申请专利了。但我们大多数人也不做这些事情。

The economically and politically relevant comparison on most tasks is not whether the language model is better than the best human, it is whether they are better than the human who would otherwise do that task. This makes the objection that AI systems are not yet coding long sequences or doing more than fairly basic math on their own a more relevant one. But these systems will continue to improve at all cognitive tasks. The shared goal of the field of artificial intelligence is to create a system that can do anything. I expect us to soon reach it. If I’m right, how should we think about the coming obsolescence of work?    

大多数任务的经济和政治相关比较不是语言模型是否比最好的人类更好，而是它们是否比执行该任务的人类更好。这使得人工智能系统尚未对长序列进行编码或仅自行完成相当基本的数学运算的反对意见变得更加相关。但这些系统将继续改进所有认知任务。人工智能领域的共同目标是创建一个无所不能的系统。我希望我们很快就能实现这一目标。如果我是对的，我们应该如何看待即将到来的工作淘汰？

It is worth noting up front that even today, work is [far from](https://www.palladiummag.com/2022/01/06/quit-your-job/) the only way to participate in society. Nevertheless, it has proven to be the best way to transfer wealth and resources; it provides personal goods like social connection, status, and meaning; and it offers social goods like political stability.  

值得注意的是，即使在今天，工作也远不是参与社会的唯一方式。尽管如此，它已被证明是转移财富和资源的最佳方式；它提供个人物品，如社会联系、地位和意义；它还提供政治稳定等社会福利。  

  

Given this, should we meet the possibility of its loss with sadness, fear, joy, or hope? The overall economic effects of Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) are difficult to forecast, and here I will focus on the question of how people will _feel_ without work—whether they will, or can, be happy. There are obviously other vital questions, like how people will be able to meet their material needs. Many have examined this question, with no final answer yet adopted as official policy for this contingency by any government. I am instead going to do something that may feel like cheating. I will go ahead and assume that people can meet their financial needs through universal basic income or other transfers and will solely concentrate on the question of whether people can and will _be happy_—or at least as happy as they are now—without work.   

鉴于此，我们应该以悲伤、恐惧、喜悦还是希望来面对失去它的可能性？通用人工智能（AGI）的整体经济影响很难预测，在这里我将重点讨论人们在没有工作的情况下会感觉如何——他们是否会或能够快乐。显然还有其他重要问题，比如人们如何满足他们的物质需求。许多人都研究过这个问题，但尚未有任何政府将最终答案采纳为应对这种突发事件的官方政策。相反，我会做一些可能感觉像作弊的事情。我将继续假设人们可以通过全民基本收入或其他转移支付来满足他们的财务需求，并且将只关注人们是否能够并且将会在没有工作的情况下幸福——或者至少像现在一样幸福的问题。

### **The Obsolescence of Knowledge Work   

知识工作的过时**

I expect AI to [get much better](https://arxiv.org/abs/2001.08361) than it is today. Research on AI systems has shown that they predictably improve given better algorithms, more and better quality data, and more computational power. Labs are in the process of further scaling up their clusters—the groupings of computers that the algorithms run on. Machine learning is a young field, with an enormous amount of “low hanging fruit” in terms of discoveries, meaning that researchers continuously find improvements to the algorithms of these AI systems. While an enormous amount of data has already been fed through them, there is still more to be found and it can also be generated by the systems themselves. So, given the “scaling laws”, we can reasonably foresee that these systems will keep getting better—at least until these inputs run out.  

我预计人工智能会比今天更好。对人工智能系统的研究表明，如果有更好的算法、更多质量更好的数据以及更强的计算能力，它们的性能将得到可预测的提高。实验室正在进一步扩大其集群——运行算法的计算机分组。机器学习是一个年轻的领域，在发现方面有大量“容易实现的成果”，这意味着研究人员不断寻找对这些人工智能系统算法的改进。虽然已经通过它们提供了大量数据，但仍有更多数据有待发现，并且这些数据也可以由系统本身生成。因此，考虑到“规模法则”，我们可以合理地预见这些系统将不断变得更好——至少在这些输入用完之前是这样。

And at what rate will they get better? Language models are not, for the most part, continuously improving. They get better in discontinuous jumps. A rough analogy to the current LLM process is that making a new model is like baking a cake. You figure out your data and algorithms—like mixing the batter—and then you pretrain the model, that is, run it on a large number of computers for several months—like putting it in the oven—and then at the end you do some “post training”—like frosting and decorating the cake. Post training can adjust the model in certain ways, often to make it more harmless or honest, or to make it particularly good at some specific skill or use case—but most of what matters for the model’s capabilities, at least right now, is the underlying “cake,” and this can’t be easily adjusted without starting over and baking something new. So when it comes to the rate of progress, when models seem to plateau, you should actually assume that that just means that the next model is in the oven but hasn’t come out yet.  

他们会以什么速度好转？在大多数情况下，语言模型并没有持续改进。他们在不连续的跳跃中变得更好。与当前LLM流程的粗略比喻是，制作新模型就像烤蛋糕一样。你弄清楚你的数据和算法——就像混合面糊——然后你预训练模型，也就是说，在大量计算机上运行它几个月——就像把它放进烤箱——最后你做一些“培训后”——比如在蛋糕上撒糖霜和装饰。后期培训可以以某些方式调整模型，通常是为了使其更加无害或诚实，或者使其特别擅长某些特定技能或用例，但对于模型的功能来说，最重要的是，至少现在是这样。底层的“蛋糕”，如果不重新开始并烘烤新的东西，就无法轻易调整。因此，当谈到进展速度时，当模型似乎停滞不前时，你实际上应该假设这只是意味着下一个模型已经在烤箱中但尚未问世。

[Many](https://www.imf.org/en/Publications/fandd/issues/2023/12/Scenario-Planning-for-an-AGI-future-Anton-korinek) [expect](https://static1.squarespace.com/static/57d002e01b631bc215df193b/t/595e5d34e3df28e874d5dd40/1499356473362/SUSSKIND%2C+A+Model+of+Technological+Unemployment+6+July+2017.pdf) AI to eventually be able to do every economically useful task. I agree. Given the current trajectory of the technology, I expect AI to first excel at any kind of online work. Essentially anything that a remote worker can do, AI will do better. Copywriting, tax preparation, customer service, and many other tasks are or will soon be heavily automated. I can see the beginnings in areas like software development and contract law. Generally, tasks that involve reading, analyzing, and synthesizing information, and then generating content based on it, seem ripe for replacement by language models.

Obsolescence is unlikely to come for all types of work at the same pace, and even once we have “human-level AI,” the effects will look very different before and after the widespread deployment of robotics. The pace of improvements in robotics lags significantly behind cognitive automation. It is improving as well—but more slowly. Anyone who makes a living through  delicate and varied movements guided by situation specific know-how can expect to work for much longer than five more years. Thus, electricians, gardeners, plumbers, jewelry makers, hair stylists, as well as those who repair ironwork or make stained glass might find their handiwork contributing to our society for many more years to come. Regulated industries like medicine or the civil service will have human involvement for longer, but even there, I expect an increasingly small number of human workers who are increasingly supplemented with AI systems working alongside them.

Finally, I expect there to be jobs where humans are preferred to AIs even if the AIs can do the job equally well, or perhaps even if they can do it better. This will apply to jobs where something is gained from the very fact that a human is doing it—likely because it involves the consumer feeling like they have a relationship with the human worker as a human. Jobs that might fall into this category include counselors, doulas, caretakers for the elderly, babysitters, preschool teachers, priests and religious leaders, even sex workers—much has been made of AI girlfriends, but I still expect that a large percentage of buyers of in-person sexual services will have a strong preference for humans. Some have called these jobs “[nostalgic jobs](https://www.imf.org/en/Publications/fandd/issues/2023/12/Scenario-Planning-for-an-AGI-future-Anton-korinek).” It is possible, given deflationary pressures, that real wages in these remaining occupations remain enough to keep most people going, at roughly current labor force participation rates.

### **The Psychology of Employment**

As automation rolls out across these industries, how should we expect people to feel? The common assumption about automation, even setting aside the financial effects, is that people will be incredibly unhappy without work. [More evidence than not](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1747091/) seems to point to unemployment having numerous and diverse negative physical and mental health ramifications, although the size of these effects [varies](https://izajole.springeropen.com/articles/10.1186/s40172-018-0068-5): 

> “The relationship between unemployment and health has been extensively explored. Alternative identification strategies, data sets, and labor market conditions have produced a vast array of results. These range from very large effects on mortality after job displacement (50–100% increases) as in Sullivan and von Wachter (2009), Eliason and Storrie (2009a) or Browning and Heinesen (2012) to relatively small ones (10–15% increases) as in Rege et al. (2009). The variance of the estimated effects on other—less severe—health and mental health outcomes is even larger, both within and across outcomes. Remarkably, several excellent studies find almost negligible (Kuhn et al. 2009; Black et al. 2015) and even zero effects (Salm 2009; Browning et al. 2006; Roulet A: The Effect of Unemployment on Health: Evidence from Denmark, unpublished).” 

One challenge of examining the effects of unemployment on health and wellbeing is the causality. Unhealthy or mentally ill people are more likely to lose or quit their jobs and are more likely to stay unemployed for longer. This means that results showing that the unemployed are mentally and physically sicker shouldn’t be taken to mean that unemployment necessarily makes them sicker.

[One study](https://izajole.springeropen.com/articles/10.1186/s40172-018-0068-5) that tried to tackle this looked at the effects of unemployment caused by the collapse of the Spanish construction industry on mental and physical health. This particular study was attempting to disentangle the causality because people who lose their job during a nationwide collapse of an industry will avoid this selection effect: these individuals are no more likely to have mental or physical issues than other members of the population. By looking at large-scale survey responses before and after the crisis, they found that unemployment did appear to increase the likelihood of reporting poorer health, by about 15% in their sample, and an increase in the chance of reporting having a mental disorder, by about one third.

It does seem that, overall, unemployment makes people sadder, sicker, and more anxious. But it isn’t clear if this is an inherent fact of unemployment, or a contingent one. It is difficult to isolate the pure psychological effects of being unemployed, because at present these are confounded with the financial effects—if you lose your job, you have less money—which produce stress that would not exist in the context of, say, universal basic income. It is also confounded with the “shame” aspect of being fired or laid off—of not working when you really feel you should be working—as opposed to the context where essentially all workers have been displaced. Intuitively, it seems there should be more negative psychological effects from losing a job in a way that feels like a personal failing, or that sets one apart from one’s peers, versus losing a job in a “blameless” way, or at the same time and in the same manner as one’s peers. At least with this aspect, there are ways to isolate it.

One study that gets around the “shame” confounder of unemployment is “[A Forced Vacation? The Stress of Being Temporarily Laid Off During a Pandemic](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/07308884221129520)” by Scott Schieman, Quan Mai, and Ryu Won Kang. This study looked at Canadian workers who were temporarily laid off several months into the COVID-19 pandemic. They first assumed that such a disruption would increase psychological distress, but instead found that the self-reported wellbeing was more in line with the “forced vacation hypothesis,” suggesting that temporarily laid-off workers might initially experience lower distress due to the unique circumstances of the pandemic. 

Using survey data of unemployed and employed workers, and interviews with a subset of laid-off workers, they found that individuals who were temporarily laid off in April 2020 reported lower levels of distress compared to their peers who remained employed. By May 2020, the distress gap observed in April had vanished, indicating that being temporarily laid off was not associated with higher distress during these months. The interviews revealed that many workers viewed being left without work as a “forced vacation,” appreciating the break from work-related stress and valuing the time for self-care and family. The widespread nature of layoffs normalized the experience, reducing personal blame and fostering a sense of shared experience. Financial strain was mitigated by government support, personal savings, and reduced spending, which buffered against potential distress.

Stress ticked up later in the pandemic for these workers, which could indicate that long stretches of unemployment are psychologically different than short ones, but could also indicate that financial stress increased as people ate through their savings, a factor that would not apply under genuine universal basic income. The study suggests that the context and available support systems can significantly alter the psychological outcomes of unemployment—which seems promising for AGI-induced unemployment.

Plant closures, like the pandemic, might provide a “shame-free” way of entering unemployment. The study “[Effects of Layoffs and Plant Closings on Depression Among Older Workers](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2792935/)” by Jennie E. Brand, Becca R. Levy, and William T. Gallo looked at several hundred men and women who experienced layoffs as compared to plant closures, using longitudinal data from the Health and Retirement Study. They found that reported depression increased after both forms of displacement for men and women. But they found that depression was higher for men after being laid off than for a plant closure, and the reverse for women. The male side of this was hypothesized to be caused by the fact that being laid off felt more like a personal failure that singled the men out, whereas a plant closure was not related to their own worth and was experienced equally by their community. They didn’t have a great explanation for the women’s results, which leaves something to be desired.

From the studies on plant closures and pandemic layoffs, it seems that shame plays a role in making people unhappy after unemployment, which implies that they might be happier in full automation-induced unemployment, since it would be near-universal and not signify any personal failing.

A final piece that reveals a societal-psychological aspect to how much work is deemed necessary is that the amount has changed over time! The number of hours that people have worked has [declined over the past 150 years](https://ourworldindata.org/working-hours). Work hours tend to decline as a country gets richer. It seems odd to assume that the current accepted amount of work of roughly 40 hours a week is the optimal amount. The 8-hour work day, weekends, time off—hard-fought and won by the labor movement!—seem to have been triumphs for human health and well-being. Why should we assume that stopping here is right? Why should we assume that less work was better in the past, but less work now would be worse?

Removing the shame that accompanies unemployment by removing the sense that one _ought_ to be working seems one way to make people happier during unemployment. Another is what they do with their free time. Regardless of how one enters unemployment, one still confronts empty and often unstructured time. Is this, in and of itself, bad for people?

One paper, titled “[Having Too Little or Too Much Time Is Linked to Lower Subjective Well-Being](https://www.apa.org/pubs/journals/releases/psp-pspp0000391.pdf)” by Marissa A. Sharif, Cassie Mogilner, and Hal E. Hershfield tried to explore whether it was possible to have “too much” leisure time. They hypothesized that discretionary time had an inverted U-shaped relationship with subjective well-being—meaning at low levels of discretionary time, increasing it increased well-being, while at high levels, increasing it decreased well-being. Using survey data (and a somewhat less reliable seeming “imagination activity”) it found that participants reported that no amount of “social” or “productive” discretionary time would be too much, though “solo” and “unproductive” discretionary time could be.

The paper concluded that it is possible to have too little discretionary time, but also possible to have too much, and that moderate amounts of discretionary time seemed best for subjective well-being. More time could be better, or at least not meaningfully worse, provided it was spent on “social” or “productive” leisure activities. This suggests that how people fare psychologically with their post-AGI unemployment will depend heavily on _how_ they use their time, not _how much_ of it there is—there is a path to positive well-being, if people spend time exercising, playing with their kids, spending time with friends, and so on.

### **The End of the Protestant Work Ethic**  

Can we envision people free from the psychological burdens of shame and duty, using their time well, and being happy while not working? Yes, we certainly can, because many of us already, at least occasionally, are: people on weekends, on vacation, during summers when they are students. Perhaps these groups reflect the “optimal amount of free time” argument above—that some time off can be good, while too much off can be bad. Or they reflect the shame piece—people in these situations do not feel ashamed to not be working. Or perhaps some combination. 

We also tend to view retirement positively. If people are in fact happier after retirement, it might even suggest that not working under certain conditions is actually _beneficial_ for well-being. [A study](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC9247314/#B21) published in _Frontiers in Public Health_ looked at men in urban China and found that they were happier after retirement. Similarly, a [study](https://sci-hub.se/10.1016/j.econlet.2009.01.015) found English men reported better mental health and better subjective physical health after retirement.

Other studies find contradictory results, that retirement is actually associated with worse outcomes: the paper “[The Effects of Retirement on Physical and Mental Health Outcomes](https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w12123/w12123.pdf)” by Dhaval Dave, Inas Rashad, and Jasmina Spasojevic used data from the Health and Retirement Study covering 1992-2005 and found that retirement significantly increases difficulties in mobility and daily activities (5-16% increase), illness conditions (5-6% increase), and negatively impacts mental health (6-9% decline). These effects are mediated through lifestyle changes, such as reduced physical activity and social interactions. Mitigating factors include being married, maintaining physical activity, and part-time work post-retirement.

In contrast, “[Effect of retirement on major chronic conditions and fatigue: French GAZEL occupational cohort study](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21098617/),” used a sample of about fifteen thousand French individuals with repeated measurements from seven years before to seven years after retirement. The study found that “retirement did not change the risk of major chronic diseases but was associated with a substantial reduction in mental and physical fatigue and depressive symptoms, particularly among people with chronic diseases.”

Overall, there is a [fair amount of support](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0167268112000601) for a vaguely U-shaped trajectory of happiness based on age, meaning that older people tend to self-report as happier, particularly between 60 and 75, though gender and income [also affect](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10902-016-9830-1) the exact shape. This means that older people—those who, in developed countries, tend to be retired—self-report as happier, on average, than working people. Automation-induced unemployment could feel like retiring depending on how total it is. If essentially no one is working, and no one feels like they should be working, it might be more akin to retirement, in that it would lack the shameful element of feeling set apart from one’s peers.

Women provide another view on whether formal work is good for happiness. Women are, for the most part, relatively recent entrants to the formal labor market. [In the U.S](https://ourworldindata.org/female-labor-supply)., 18% of women were in the formal labor force in 1890. In 2016, 57% were. Has labor force participation made them happier? By some accounts: no. [A paper](https://law.yale.edu/sites/default/files/documents/pdf/Intellectual_Life/Stevenson_ParadoxDecliningFemaleHappiness_Dec08.pdf) that looked at subjective well-being for U.S. women from the General Social Survey between the 1970s and 2000s—a time when labor force participation was [climbing](https://ourworldindata.org/female-labor-supply)—found both relative and absolute declines in female happiness. 

Of course, saying that women were not made happier by joining the workforce does not guarantee that leaving it would not make them unhappy. But I think women’s work and AI is a relatively optimistic story. Women have been able to automate unpleasant tasks via technological advances, while the more meaningful aspects of their work seem less likely to be automated away. 

When not participating in the formal labor market, women overwhelmingly fill their time with childcare and housework. The time needed to do housework has [declined](https://academic.oup.com/qje/article-abstract/122/3/969/1879557?redirectedFrom=fulltext) over time due to tools like washing machines, dryers, and dishwashers. These tools might serve as early analogous examples of the future effects of AI: reducing unwanted and burdensome work to free up time for other tasks deemed more necessary or enjoyable. Roombas are a comic and clear continuation of this trend. It seems likely that more advanced AI systems will also soon enter the home to fold clothes, cook meals, and the like.

That said, it seems less likely that AIs will so thoroughly automate childcare and child-rearing because this “work” is so much more about the relationship between the parties involved. Like therapy, childcare and teaching seems likely to be one of the forms of work where a preference for a human worker will persist the longest.

Another view on unemployment comes from the aristocrats of the past. In the early modern era, landed gentry and similar were essentially unemployed. Perhaps they did some minor administration of their tenants, some dabbled in politics or were dragged into military projects, but compared to most formal workers they seem to have worked relatively few hours. They filled the remainder of their time with intricate social rituals like balls and parties, hobbies like hunting, studying literature, and philosophy, producing and consuming art, writing letters, and spending time with friends and family. We don’t have much real well-being survey data from this group, but, hedonically, they seem to have been fine. Perhaps they suffered from some ennui, but if we were informed that the great mass of humanity was going to enter their position, I don’t think people would be particularly worried.

If we do manage to obtain a world where people have their material needs met but also have no need to work, aristocrats could be a relevant comparison. Doubly so because they were part of a social world where their peers were similarly unemployed. I sometimes wonder if there is some implicit classism in people’s worries about unemployment: the rich will know how to use their time well, but the poor will need to be kept busy. I suppose we’ll soon find out. 

We also have to consider what effects unemployment will have when it encompasses entire civilizations. The Culture, the people of Iain Banks’ eponymously named science-fiction series, face exactly this conundrum. They are a completely post-scarcity society. Money is viewed as crude and irrelevant for allocating resources. Living space, raw materials, and energy are produced in abundance for its citizens: “the capacity of its means of production ubiquitously and comprehensively exceeded every reasonable… demand its not unimaginative citizens could make.” Yet, the Culture has at least one need that this abundance cannot satisfy: 

> “The only desire the Culture could not satisfy from within itself was one common to both the descendants of its original human stock and the machines they had (at however great a remove) brought into being: the urge not to feel useless. The Culture’s sole justification for the relatively unworried, hedonistic life its population enjoyed was its good works; the secular evangelism of the Contact Section, not simply finding, cataloguing, investigating and analysing other, less advanced civilisations but – where the circumstances appeared to Contact to justify so doing – actually interfering (overtly or covertly) in the historical processes of those other cultures.”

This society is fully able to meet the material needs of its people—but it still must reckon with their “spiritual” needs, of feeling like they have a reason for being. In this case, one that they satisfy via studying and interfering with other galactic species. One does have to wonder what happens when this work is done—all the species found and uplifted. And for us, will we too [turn to the stars](https://www.palladiummag.com/2023/08/16/the-only-reason-to-explore-space/)? It isn’t crazy. I suppose the question is really: will we turn to the stars even when the machines we make are able to do that better than we can, just as they can do everything else better too? 

Do you do anything that you are notably worse at than other people just for the sheer value of your doing it, either the joy or the meaning? I do. I dance ballet although I know that being a prima ballerina now that I am in my mid-twenties is long behind me—but moving my body like that brings me joy. We can think of this as the _hedonic reason_ for doing an activity others can do better. 

Although a trained therapist might be able to counsel my friends or family through their troubles better, I still do it, because there is value in _me_ being the one to do so. We can think of this as the _relational reason_ for doing something others can do better. I write because sometimes I enjoy it, and sometimes I think it betters me. I know others do so better, but I don’t care—at least not all the time. The reasons for this are part hedonic and part _virtue or morality_. 

A renowned AI researcher once told me that he is practicing for post-AGI by taking up activities that he is not particularly good at: jiu-jitsu, surfing, and so on, and savoring the doing even without excellence. This is how we can prepare for our future where we will have to do things from joy rather than need, where we will no longer be the best at them, but will still have to choose how to fill our days.

We will also not need to choose how to fill our time alone: in the context where we are all out of work—and where this is one of our main worries—it means we built relatively-aligned artificial general intelligence. For the same reasons I expect us to reach AGI, I expect it to progress beyond this point, to where we have “superhuman” systems. For the same reason these systems will be helpful with anything, we should expect that these systems will be able to help with the problems that they create. If we believe there are solutions to unhappiness or a feeling of a loss of purpose, and that these solutions can be found with intelligence, then we should expect these systems to be able to help us find them. This may sound self-serving or wishful, and will doubtless leave many unsatisfied. But, I believe that if we really think these systems will be able to replace us, there is no reason to believe they will not also be able to help us in our search for meaning.

Avital Balwit lives in San Francisco and works as Chief of Staff to the CEO at Anthropic. This piece was written entirely in her personal capacity and does not reflect the views of Anthropic. You can find more of her writing [here](https://www.avitalbalwit.com/writing) or follow her at [@AvitalBalwit](https://twitter.com/AvitalBalwit).
